
COSC 120 - Introduction to Computer Science I Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in each semester This course surveys computer science and introduces object-oriented programming. A survey of the pivotal fields of computer science, including software engineering, computer networks, programming languages, algorithms, computer architecture, models of computation and operating systems. Students begin to solve simple problems using object-oriented programming. The emphasis is on implementing object-oriented designs. This course is suitable for non-majors who want an overview of computer science and to learn to solve problems with programs. Course Satisfies: Core Exploration requirement in Mathematics.
COSC 130 - Introduction to Computer Science II Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in each semester This course examines object-oriented design and programming in greater detail. An examination of the use of the data structures provided by language-specific libraries, and some common simple algorithms. Students learn to design and implement simple applications. The emphasis of this course is on learning good design. This course is suitable for non-majors who want to improve their ability to solve problems using programs. Prerequisite(s): COSC 120 . Close
MATH 151 - Calculus I Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in each semester The differential and integral calculus of functions of one variable: limits and continuity, the derivative, curve sketching, applications of the derivative, indefinite integrals and differential equations, definite integrals and the fundamental theorem, integration methods, applications of the integral, the convergence of sequences and series, power series, Taylor’s theorem and analytic functions, polar coordinates and parametric equations. Course Satisfies: Core Exploration requirement in Mathematics. Prerequisite(s): Familiarity with high school trigonometry is expected.
MATH 152 - Calculus II Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in each semester The differential and integral calculus of functions of one variable: limits and continuity, the derivative, curve sketching, applications of the derivative, indefinite integrals and differential equations, definite integrals and the fundamental theorem, integration methods, applications of the integral, the convergence of sequences and series, power series, Taylor’s theorem and analytic functions, polar coordinates and parametric equations. Course Satisfies: Core Exploration requirement in Mathematics. Prerequisite(s): Familiarity with high school trigonometry is expected. MATH 151 is a prerequisite for MATH 152. Close
MATH 200 - Discrete Mathematics Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered annually in the spring semester Set theory, elementary logic, sequences and mathematical induction, functions and relations, counting techniques, matrix theory, graphs and trees. MATH 200 assumes more mathematical preparation than MATH 131 . Course Satisfies: Core Exploration requirement in Mathematics. Close Close
COSC 201 - Algorithms and Data Structures Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered annually in the fall semester This course examines the representation (data structures) and manipulation (algorithms) of information. The emphasis is on choosing the most memory and/or time-efficient implementation for a particular application. Topics: common implementations of lists, sets, maps, stacks, queues, trees and graphs and a survey of some common algorithms for processing these data structures. Students will compare implementations of the data structures commonly provided by language-specific libraries. Prerequisite(s): COSC 130 . Close
COSC 230 - Computer Architecture Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered annually in the fall semester This course studies the structure of computer hardware. Topics include models of computer hardware; instruction set architectures; simple code generation from a high-level language, machine code, simple logic design, representations of numbers and other data types, computer arithmetic, data path organization, input-output devices, control techniques (FSM and microcode), pipelines, caches, buses, virtual memory and primary, secondary and tertiary storage structures. Prerequisite(s): COSC 130 ; and MATH 200 or MATH 281 . Close Close Close
COSC 251 - Programming Languages Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered annually in the spring semester This course studies the categories and features of programming languages. An examination of one language from each group: imperative, applicative and declarative. Topics include types and type resolution and checking, scope, visibility and binding, control structures, expression evaluation, data and behavior abstraction, parameter passing, error handling and concurrency. The course will also give an overview of lexical analysis and parsing techniques.   Formerly COSC 351. Not open to students who have received credit for COSC 351. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 and MATH 200 or MATH 281 . Close Close Close
COSC 301 - Software Engineering Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered annually in the fall semester This course is an introduction to the discipline of software engineering. Each part of the software lifecycle is examined. The principles of software engineering are introduced, and their impact on language design and the software development process is examined. Tools suitable for supporting the various life cycle phases are introduced. Emphasis is placed on developing high-quality software as opposed to developing software quickly. Topics include requirements analysis, project planning, preliminary and detailed designs, reviews, integration strategies, testing strategies, metrics and documentation. The course includes participation in a group project. Each project team assigns roles to team members in order to apply software engineering processes to develop and deliver a software product. Technical writing guidelines and techniques will be introduced. Course requirements include written assignments and oral presentations. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 or permission of the instructor. Close
COSC 335 - Operating Systems Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the spring semester This course studies the structure, function of and algorithms used in operating systems. Topics include scheduling, processes and threads, inter-process communication, memory management, file systems, protection and security and input-output management. The course will compare the features and implementation of two current operating systems. Prerequisite(s): COSC 230 . Close
COSC 336 - Computer Networks Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the spring semester This course is an introduction to computer networks. The theoretical concepts of networks are illustrated with current technologies. Topics include network models (ISO OSI), common network applications (SMTP, FTP, and HTTP), connection and connection-less transport protocols (TCP and UDP), routing algorithms, data-link protocols (Ethernet), error detection and correction techniques, multiple access protocols (CSMA/CD) and physical transmission media (copper wire and fiber optic). Prerequisite(s): COSC 230 . Close
COSC 338 - Computer Graphics Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the spring semester This course is an introduction to three-dimensional computer graphics. Topics include: vector mathematics; perspective; clipping; hidden surface removal; polygon mesh rendering techniques; texture mapping; ray tracing; and animation. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 and MATH 152 . Close Close
COSC 360 - Introduction to Data Science Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the fall semester This course serves as an introduction to the programming and data analysis techniques required for data science. Topics include: basic data science tools and techniques, data acquisition and analysis, basic predictive modelling, and ethics in data science. Not open to students who have received credit for COSC 480 - Topics in Computer Science or COSC 481 - Introduction to Data Science. Prerequisite(s): COSC 251 or permission of the instructor. Close Close
COSC 370 - Artificial Intelligence Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the spring semester This course surveys artificial intelligence. Topics include symbolic processing, expert systems, machine learning and neural networks, natural language processing, pattern matching, genetic algorithms and fuzzy logic. Not open to students who have received credit for COSC 260.   Formerly COSC 260. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 ; and MATH 200 or MATH 281 . Close Close Close
COSC 420 - Distributed and Parallel Computing Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the fall semester This course studies the methods for using several computers connected by a network to solve a single problem. Topics include networking services, middleware (CORBA, DCOM, SOAP, RMI and RPC), two- and three-tier client-server systems, algorithms for parallel computing, performance evaluation and hardware architectures (clusters, grids, surfaces). Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 or permission of the instructor. Close
COSC 435 - Acceleration Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the fall semester This course will study the tools, techniques and architectures to provide hardware acceleration of software. Topics include: high-level synthesis, register transfer level descriptions and synthesis, gate and transistor level descriptions, finite state machines, systolic arrays and pipeline architectures. Both Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) and custom integrated circuit approaches will be covered. In addition to the application of Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools, the algorithms they use will be described. Prerequisite(s): COSC 230 or permission of instructor. Close
COSC 438 - Game Design and Development Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the fall semester This course serves as an introduction to game design and game development. Topics include: game engine usage, game genre analysis, artificial intelligence in games, game development lifecycle, various game design strategies, network architecture in games and game development in a current programming language. Students will complete a major game development project.   Formerly COSC480 - Topics in Computer Science: Game Design and Development. Not open to students who have received credit for COSC 480 Topics in Computer Science: Game Design and Development. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 ; and MATH 200 or MATH 281 . Close Close Close
COSC 440 - Theory of Computation Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the fall semester This course examines the mathematical models underlying computer science. Topics include finite automata, regular languages and regular grammars, context-free languages, simplification of context-free grammars and normal forms, push-down automata, Turing machines, limits of algorithmic computation and NP-completeness. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 ; and MATH 200 or MATH 281 . Close Close Close
COSC 445 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the spring semester This course studies the design, implementation and analysis of important algorithms. Topics include lower and upper complexity bounds, algorithm analysis techniques, NP-completeness, sorting algorithms, searching algorithms, graph algorithms, divide-and-conquer algorithms, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, backtracking, probabilistic algorithms, and mathematical algorithms. Not open to students who have received credit for COSC 340.   Formerly COSC 340. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 ; and MATH 200 or MATH 281 . Close Close
COSC 450 - Database Management Systems Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the fall semester This course examines the concepts of databases. Topics include flat, hierarchical and relational database models, entity attribute relationship modeling, relational calculus, data normalization, functional dependence, data integrity, transactions and rollback, data security, distributed databases, information and knowledge management, object-relational mapping and object-oriented databases. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 ; and MATH 200 or MATH 281 . Close Close Close
COSC 455 - Graph Theory Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the spring semester This course will introduce students to the fundamental principles of Graph Theory. Students will explore both the mathematics concepts regarding Graph Theory and the algorithms for and uses of these concepts. Projects will be geared toward marrying the mathematics and computer science sides of Graph Theory and using the strengths of the students to discuss specific graph problems. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 ; and MATH 200 or MATH 281 . Close Close Close
COSC 460 - Advanced Data Science and Visualization Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in alternate years, usually in the spring semester This course serves as an advanced exploration into the programming and data visualization techniques required for data science. Topics include: advanced inference and predictive modelling, data mining, data visualization, and ethics in data science. The course will include a major team project that will involve all aspects of the data science sequence. Prerequisite(s): COSC 360 or permission of the instructor. Close
COSC 480 - Topics in Computer Science Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered in each semester This course is a rigorous study of an important field in computer science. Examples: data security, bioinformatics, natural language processing, compilers. A detailed course description will be available before registration. The course may be repeated for credit where the topic is not repetitive. Prerequisite(s): COSC 201 or permission of the instructor. Close
MATH 221 - Introduction to Statistics Credit Hours: 4 Frequency of Offering: Offered annually in the spring semester Introduction to the concepts and methods of statistics, including descriptive statistics (measures of central tendency, dispersion and shape, as well as data organization), probability theory, probability distributions, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, types of error, correlation and regression, and analysis of variance. Computer software which provides statistical capabilities is used to apply the concepts covered to realistic data sets from the biological and/or social sciences. Course Satisfies: Core Exploration requirement in Mathematics.